# Examples

This section contains examples of how to use the Pipelines SDK.

::: tabs

@tab NPM

## Build the documentation site

This example shows how to build the documentation site for the Nosana SDK.
Let's quickly go through it.

At the top the `nosana.yml` file, we have the `nosana` section.
This is used to configure the pipeline itself.
The `description` is used to identify the pipeline in the Nosana network.
The `storage` is used to configure the backend storage service that will be used to store the data that is generated by the pipeline. For now only IPFS is supported.

In the `global` section we have the `image` that will be used to run the pipeline.
For this pipeline we are using the `node:16` image. Take notice that the whole URI is required, not just the image name.
This pipeline will be triggered on the following branches: `main` and `develop`.

The `jobs` section is used to configure the individual jobs that will be executed in the pipeline.
The `image` used for these jobs is already defined in the `global` section, so there is no need to define it again.
For this example there are two jobs, `install` and `generate`.
The basic gist of it is that the `install` job will install the dependencies, and the `generate` job will generate the documentation site.

For illustration purposes the `resources` 🡪 `artifact` pattern is shown to show how to use artifacts between jobs.
This is not required for this pipeline, but it is a good example of how to use artifacts.

Last but not least, the `artifacts` generated by the pipeline called `dist` will be stored in storage to be used later for you purposes

```yaml
# .nosana-ci.yml
nosana:
    description: Build Nosana Documentation
    storage: IPFS

global:
    image: registry.hub.docker.com/library/node:16

    # Git, trigger on these branches
    trigger:
        branch:
            - main
            - develop

    # Environment variables
    environment:
        APP_ENV: production # comment here about this var

    # Allow pipeline to stop if one job fails
    allow_failure: true # default: false

jobs:

    # Install dependencies
    - name: install
      commands:
        - npm ci
      artifacts: # artifact for the next job
        - name: node_modules
          path: ./node_modules/

    # Lint and generate docs.
    - name: generate
      commands:
          - npm run eslint
          - npm run prettier
          - npm run generate
      resources: # artifact from previous job
        - node_modules
      artifacts: # artifact for deployment
          - name: dist
            path: ./dist/
```

@tab SPL

## Build Nosana Contract

This example shows how to build and test the Nosana contracts.
We will be using the projectserum image to run the pipeline.

Another example `.nosana-ci.yml` file. In this case it is used to build and test the Nosana contracts.

The `nosana` section is used to configure the pipeline itself.
The `description` is used to identify the pipeline in the Nosana network.
The `storage` is used to configure the backend storage service that will be used to store the data that is generated by the pipeline. For now only IPFS is supported.

In the `global` section we have the `image` that will be used to run the pipeline.
For this pipeline the `projectserum/build:v0.25.0` image is used.
Note that the whole URI is required, not just the image name.
This pipeline will only be triggered on the `main` branch.
The `allow_failure` option is set to `true` to allow the pipeline to continue if one of the jobs fails.
It's more important to have the pipeline run through all of the tests than to stop at the first failure.

The `jobs` section is used to configure the individual jobs that will be executed in the pipeline.
For this example there are four jobs that will be executed in the pipeline.
There is an installation and build step, a linting step, and the rest of the jobs are used to test the contracts.

Here it is important to note that the `resources` 🡪 `artifact` pattern is shown to show how to use artifacts between jobs.
Here it is good to see how artifacts are availble to different jobs.

For this pipeline it is not important to store an artifact, we are only interested in the test results.

```yaml
# .nosana-ci.yml
nosana:
    description: Build and Test Nosana Contracts
    backend: IPFS

global:
    image: registry.hub.docker.com/projectserum/build:v0.25.0

    # Trigger pipeline on these branches:
    trigger:
        branch:
            - main

    # Allow pipeline to stop if one job fails
    allow_failure: true # default: false

jobs:

    - name: install_build
      commands:
        - npm ci
        - anchor build

      artifacts:
        - name: anchor_target
          path: ./target/
        - name: node_modules
          path: ./node_modules/

    - name: npm_tests
      commands:
          - npm run eslint
          - npm run prettier
          - npm run check-types
      resources:
        - node_modules

    - name: anchor_test
      commands:
          - solana-keygen new --no-bip39-passphrase
          - anchor test --skip-build
      resources:
        - node_modules
        - anchor_target

    - name: cargo_test
      commands:
          - cargo check --resources
          - cargo test --release
          - cargo clippy --release
      resources:
          - node_modules
          - anchor_target
```

:::
